lab_04.md, before:

# Lab 0.4 - Getting to Know You
In this lab, you will explore SNAP and create a simple "self-portrait" program to introduce yourself to your instructors and classmates.

## Part 1 - Exploring SNAP
1. Open [SNAP](http://snap.berkeley.edu/snapsource/snap.html) on your computer and spend a few minutes looking around, trying things out, and seeing what the language can do.  Don't worry about understanding everything completely-- we'll go through things in a lot more detail soon.  Just try to get a sense of some of the basic capabilities.

2. Write down three things you found that SNAP can do and how to do them.  Be as specific as you can!
 
 | SNAP can do this...| If I do this... |
 | --- | --- |
 | 1.  |     |
 | 2.  |     |
 | 3.  | .   |

3. Find a partner and compare notes.  Share your findings with your partner and ask him or her about what he or she learned.  Write down the three capabilities your partner found below.

 | SNAP can do this... | If I do this... |
 | --- | --- |
 | 1.  |     |
 | 2.  |     |
 | 3.  | .   |

## Part 2 - Who Are You?
4. Using what you've learned and other things you might discover, create a SNAP program that describes yourself.  This can take whatever form and use whatever SNAP tools and blocks you want.  Make sure that somehow, at some point in your program you show the following information:
    * Your name
    * Your current grade
    * Your age
    * Your favorite class in school
    * One of your hobbies or interests
    * Any previous programming or computer experience you have
    * Now that you have had some additional time to think about "I am ____", express who you are using SNAP.

## Grading Scheme/Rubric

| **Lab 0.4 Criteria**                                          |                |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| 1.2 Listed 3 things you found Snap can do                     | 0.3 points     |
| 1.3 Listed 3 things your partner found Snap can do            | 0.3 points     |
| Part 2                                                        |                |
| Includes name                                                 | 0.2 points     |
| Current grade                                                 | 0.2 points     |
| Age                                                           | 0.2 points     |
| Favorite class in school                                      | 0.2 points     |
| Hobby or interest                                             | 0.2 points     |
| Programming or computer experience                            | 0.0 points     |
| **PROJECT TOTAL**                                             | **1.6 points** |

Commit message:

Update to lab .04
Student Experiences survey added and rubric updated to reflect questions in survey.

lab_04.md, after:

# Lab 0.4 - Getting to Know You
In this lab, you will explore SNAP and create a simple "self-portrait" program to introduce yourself to your instructors and classmates.

## Part 1 - Exploring SNAP
1. Open [SNAP](http://snap.berkeley.edu/snapsource/snap.html) on your computer and spend a few minutes looking around, trying things out, and seeing what the language can do.  Don't worry about understanding everything completely-- we'll go through things in a lot more detail soon.  Just try to get a sense of some of the basic capabilities.

2. Write down three things you found that SNAP can do and how to do them.  Be as specific as you can!
 
 | SNAP can do this...| If I do this... |
 | --- | --- |
 | 1.  |     |
 | 2.  |     |
 | 3.  | .   |

3. Find a partner and compare notes.  Share your findings with your partner and ask him or her about what he or she learned.  Write down the three capabilities your partner found below.

 | SNAP can do this... | If I do this... |
 | --- | --- |
 | 1.  |     |
 | 2.  |     |
 | 3.  | .   |

## Part 2 - Who Are You?
4. Using what you've learned and other things you might discover, create a SNAP program that describes yourself.  This can take whatever form and use whatever SNAP tools and blocks you want.  Make sure that somehow, at some point in your program you show the information from the Student Experiences Survey 

## Grading Scheme/Rubric

| **Lab 0.4 Criteria**                                          |                |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| 1.2 Listed 3 things you found Snap can do                     | 0.3 points     |
| 1.3 Listed 3 things your partner found Snap can do            | 0.3 points     |
| Part 2                                                        |                |
| Includes name                                                 | 0.2 points     |
| Current grade                                                 | 0.2 points     |
| Age                                                           | 0.2 points     |
| Programming or computer experience                            | 0.0 points     |
| Learning CS going to be like                                  | 0.2 points     |
| Favorite uses of technology                                   | 0.2 points     |
| Favorite subject in school                                    | 0.2 points     |
| Example of something learned                                  | 0.2 points     |
| Hobby or interest                                             | 0.2 points     |
| Family Saying                                                 | 0.2 points     |
| **PROJECT TOTAL**                                             | **2.4 points** |
