lab_33.md, before:

# Lab 3.3 - Let me check my calendar

In this lab, you will write custom blocks that take arguments and are useful for calculations involving dates and calendars.

## Part 1: Basics

1. Write a custom block called **month name** that takes a number between 1 and 12 as an argument and says the name of the corresponding month.

2. Write a custom block called **day name** that takes a number between 1 and 7 as an argument and says the name of the corresponding day.  For our purposes, the week begins on Sunday.

3. Write a custom block called **days in** that takes a month name as an argument and says how many days are in that month.  Assume a non-leap year.

## Part 2: Going Farther

1. Write a custom block called **is a leap year** that takes a year number as an argument and says whether or not that year is a leap year.

    - A year is a leap year if the year is a multiple of 4 that is not a multiple of 100 (e.g. 1984), or if it is a multiple of 400 (e.g. 2000). Years that are multiples of 100 but not multiples of 400 are NOT leap years (e.g. 1800).  See [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leap_year#Algorithm) for more detail.

2. Write a custom block called **is a valid date** that takes a month name and a date as arguments and says whether or not that date exists in that month.  For example, the 31st is a valid date in January, but not in June.  The 5th is a valid date in every month, and the 40th is not a valid date in any month.

3. Write a custom block called **day in year** that takes a year number and a number between 1 and 366 and says the date that corresponds to that numbered day of the specified year.  For example, in non-leap years day #1 is January 1, day #32 is February 1, day #365 is December 31, and day #185 is July 4.  Give an error message if the number is 366 and a non-leap year is specified.

    Bonus: Determine the day you were born.  Write a custom  block called **day of week** that takes a month name, date, and year as arguments and says the day of week on which that date falls in that year.  See  [Wikipedia](https://artofmemory.com/blog/how-to-calculate-the-day-of-the-week/) for information on finding the day of the week from a date.

4. Save your project as _Lab3.3_.

## Grading rubric

| **Criteria**            | Points               |
| :------------------------------- | :-------------- |
| 1.1 month name                  | 0.5     |
| 1.2 day name                    | 0.5     |
| 1.3 days in                     | 0.5     |
| 2.1 is leap year                | 0.5     |
| 2.2 is a valid date             | 0.5     |
| 2.3 day in year                 | 0.5     |
| Bonus: day in week          | 0.5     |
| **Total**               | **3.0** |

Commit message:

Issue 3.3 argument and parameter definitions #383

lab_33.md, after:

# Lab 3.3 - Let me check my calendar

In this lab, you will write custom blocks that take parameters and are useful for calculations involving dates and calendars.

## Part 1: Basics

1. Write a custom block called **month name** that takes a number between 1 and 12 as an parameter and says the name of the corresponding month.

2. Write a custom block called **day name** that takes a number between 1 and 7 as an parameter and says the name of the corresponding day.  For our purposes, the week begins on Sunday.

3. Write a custom block called **days in** that takes a month name as an parameter and says how many days are in that month.  Assume a non-leap year.

## Part 2: Going Farther

1. Write a custom block called **is a leap year** that takes a year number as an parameter and says whether or not that year is a leap year.

    - A year is a leap year if the year is a multiple of 4 that is not a multiple of 100 (e.g. 1984), or if it is a multiple of 400 (e.g. 2000). Years that are multiples of 100 but not multiples of 400 are NOT leap years (e.g. 1800).  See [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leap_year#Algorithm) for more detail.

2. Write a custom block called **is a valid date** that takes a month name and a date as parameters and says whether or not that date exists in that month.  For example, the 31st is a valid date in January, but not in June.  The 5th is a valid date in every month, and the 40th is not a valid date in any month.

3. Write a custom block called **day in year** that takes a year number and a number between 1 and 366 and says the date that corresponds to that numbered day of the specified year.  For example, in non-leap years day #1 is January 1, day #32 is February 1, day #365 is December 31, and day #185 is July 4.  Give an error message if the number is 366 and a non-leap year is specified.

    Bonus: Determine the day you were born.  Write a custom  block called **day of week** that takes a month name, date, and year as parameters and says the day of week on which that date falls in that year.  See  [Wikipedia](https://artofmemory.com/blog/how-to-calculate-the-day-of-the-week/) for information on finding the day of the week from a date.

4. Save your project as _Lab3.3_.

## Grading rubric

| **Criteria**            | Points               |
| :------------------------------- | :-------------- |
| 1.1 month name                  | 0.5     |
| 1.2 day name                    | 0.5     |
| 1.3 days in                     | 0.5     |
| 2.1 is leap year                | 0.5     |
| 2.2 is a valid date             | 0.5     |
| 2.3 day in year                 | 0.5     |
| Bonus: day in week          | 0.5     |
| **Total**               | **3.0** |
