lesson_15.md, before:

<!--- REVISED -->
# Lesson 1.5: Nursery Rhyme Project

## Learning Objectives

Students will be able to...

-   Apply basic programming and SNAP skills to create an animated movie, play, nursery rhyme, or other scene
-   Practice good debugging skills to correct issues as they arise while programming

## Materials/Preparation

-   [Do Now 1.5: Day 1, Knock Knock](do_now_15.md)  
-   [Do Now 1.52: Day 2, Click Event Interaction](do_now_152.md)  
-   [Do Now 1.53: Day 3, Movement Interaction](do_now_153.md)  
-   Reference to Nursery Rhyme project: [Project 1 - Nursery Rhyme](project_1.md) ([Download in Word](https://tealsk12.gitbooks.io/introduction-to-computer-science/content/Projects/Projects%20Word/Project%201%20Nursery%20Rhyme.docx)) ([Link to PDF](https://tealsk12.gitbooks.io/introduction-to-computer-science/content/Projects/Projects%20PDF/Project%201%20Nursery%20Rhyme.pdf))
-   _Optional_: Printouts of the project specification
-   A list of possible nursery rhymes
    -   Wikipedia has a fairly comprehensive list: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_nursery_rhymes>
-   A few suggested subjects for students who struggle to come up with their own
    -   Pick a few simple, well-known options from your list

## Pacing Guide

| _Duration_    | _Description_                                 |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| _Day 1_       |                                               |
| 5 minutes     | Welcome, attendance, bell work, announcements |
| 30 minutes    | Review unit concepts                          |
| 20 minutes    | Introduce project                             |
| _Days 2-5_    |                                               |
| 5 minutes     | Welcome, attendance, bell work, announcements |
| 10-15 minutes | Review                                        |
| 30-35 minutes | Lab time                                      |
| 5 minutes     | Exit ticket                                   |

## Instructor's Notes

1.  Review

    -   Play a review game (such as [GrudgeBall](http://toengagethemall.blogspot.com/2013/02/grudgeball-review-game-where-kids-attack.html) to remind students of the skills and concepts that have been learned in this unit
        -   Categories of blocks
        -   Movement
        -   Drawing
        -   Hide/Show
        -   Costumes
        -   Broadcasting
    -   Remind students that their solutions to previous assignments are an excellent resource when trying to accomplish similar tasks.

2.  Introduce project

    -   Walk students through project specification, pointing out important details, potential pitfalls, and specific requirements
        -   The words to the nursery rhyme must appear on the screen somehow
            -   This can be as a sprite, as a part of the background, or "said" by a narrator
        -   Sprites must act out the nursery rhyme line by line
            -   The action must be dynamic-- a series of static images is not sufficient
        -   The action and words should advance automatically, but at a slow enough pace that the viewer can follow
        -   The user must be able to restart the animation (in a manner other than pressing the green flag again) after it has concluded
        -   At least two sprites must act during the animation, and the sprites must collectively meet the requirements on page 2
    -   Encourage students to look at the grading rubric on page two repeatedly throughout the project to ensure they are meeting all the requirements
    -   [Sample project solution](https://github.com/TEALSK12/introduction-to-computer-science-instructor/blob/master/curriculum/Sample%20Project%20Solutions.md)

3.  Project
    -   This project is a summative assessment for the unit.  Students should be demonstrating mastery of all the skills covered.
    -   Most students will require roughly 4-8 hours of total work time to complete the project
        -   Assess the progress of your students regularly using such techniques as asking them to demonstrate their incomplete programs, tracking questions asked during lab time, and/or utilizing peer reviews.
        -   Adjust the amount of time allowed for the project to fit the needs of your students
            -   It is vital that nearly all students complete the project before moving on
        -   If most students have the ability to work on SNAP assignments at home, the amount of in-class time provided can be reduced if necessary.
            -   If this approach is taken, be sure to make accommodations for students who are _not_ able to work at home, such as after school lab hours
        -   Ensure that students are able to ask questions in class throughout the project
    -   See the standard [Lab Day Lesson](lab_day_lesson.md) for detailed plans for lab days.

## Accommodation/Differentiation

-   Instead of a nursery rhyme, students can recreate a famous scene from a movie or play, depict lyrics from their favorite song, or develop their own unique animations.  Feel free to modify the specification for whichever version will appeal most to your students.
-   Advanced students can be encouraged to add detail and/or complexity to their project for possible extra credit.
-   For ELL students or students from other cultures, offer the opportunity to choose an animation subject familiar to them rather than requiring a traditional English nursery rhyme.
    -   If necessary, a non-English language can be used for this assignment without affecting the learning objectives.  Discuss this option with the student's ELL specialist to determine if it is appropriate.

Commit message:

Rename project 1 from nursery rhyme to storytelling

lesson_15.md, after:

<!--- REVISED -->
# Lesson 1.5: Storytelling Project

## Learning Objectives

Students will be able to...

-   Apply basic programming and SNAP skills to create an animated movie, play, nursery rhyme, or other scene
-   Practice good debugging skills to correct issues as they arise while programming

## Materials/Preparation

-   [Do Now 1.5: Day 1, Knock Knock](do_now_15.md)  
-   [Do Now 1.52: Day 2, Click Event Interaction](do_now_152.md)  
-   [Do Now 1.53: Day 3, Movement Interaction](do_now_153.md)  
-   Reference to Storytelling project: [Project 1 - Storytelling](project_1.md) ([Download in Word](https://tealsk12.gitbooks.io/introduction-to-computer-science/content/Projects/Projects%20Word/Project%201%20Storytelling.docx)) ([Link to PDF](https://tealsk12.gitbooks.io/introduction-to-computer-science/content/Projects/Projects%20PDF/Project%201%20Storytelling.pdf))
-   _Optional_: Printouts of the project specification
-   A list of possible plays to find a scene to animate: http://www.npr.org/sections/ed/2015/07/30/427138970/the-most-popular-high-school-plays-and-musicals
-   A list of possible nursery rhymes
    -   Wikipedia has a fairly comprehensive list: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_nursery_rhymes>
-   A few suggested subjects for students who struggle to come up with their own
    -   Pick a few simple, well-known options from your list

## Pacing Guide

| _Duration_    | _Description_                                 |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| _Day 1_       |                                               |
| 5 minutes     | Welcome, attendance, bell work, announcements |
| 30 minutes    | Review unit concepts                          |
| 20 minutes    | Introduce project                             |
| _Days 2-5_    |                                               |
| 5 minutes     | Welcome, attendance, bell work, announcements |
| 10-15 minutes | Review                                        |
| 30-35 minutes | Lab time                                      |
| 5 minutes     | Exit ticket                                   |

## Instructor's Notes

1.  Review

    -   Play a review game (such as [GrudgeBall](http://toengagethemall.blogspot.com/2013/02/grudgeball-review-game-where-kids-attack.html) to remind students of the skills and concepts that have been learned in this unit
        -   Categories of blocks
        -   Movement
        -   Drawing
        -   Hide/Show
        -   Costumes
        -   Broadcasting
    -   Remind students that their solutions to previous assignments are an excellent resource when trying to accomplish similar tasks.

2.  Introduce project

    -   Walk students through project specification, pointing out important details, potential pitfalls, and specific requirements
        -   The words to the story must appear on the screen somehow
            -   This can be as a sprite, as a part of the background, or "said" by a narrator
        -   Sprites must act out the story line by line
            -   The action must be dynamic-- a series of static images is not sufficient
        -   The action and words should advance automatically, but at a slow enough pace that the viewer can follow
        -   The user must be able to restart the animation (in a manner other than pressing the green flag again) after it has concluded
        -   At least two sprites must act during the animation, and the sprites must collectively meet the requirements on page 2
    -   Encourage students to look at the grading rubric on page two repeatedly throughout the project to ensure they are meeting all the requirements
    -   [Sample project solution](https://github.com/TEALSK12/introduction-to-computer-science-instructor/blob/master/curriculum/Sample%20Project%20Solutions.md)

3.  Project
    -   This project is a summative assessment for the unit.  Students should be demonstrating mastery of all the skills covered.
    -   Most students will require roughly 4-8 hours of total work time to complete the project
        -   Assess the progress of your students regularly using such techniques as asking them to demonstrate their incomplete programs, tracking questions asked during lab time, and/or utilizing peer reviews.
        -   Adjust the amount of time allowed for the project to fit the needs of your students
            -   It is vital that nearly all students complete the project before moving on
        -   If most students have the ability to work on SNAP assignments at home, the amount of in-class time provided can be reduced if necessary.
            -   If this approach is taken, be sure to make accommodations for students who are _not_ able to work at home, such as after school lab hours
        -   Ensure that students are able to ask questions in class throughout the project
    -   See the standard [Lab Day Lesson](lab_day_lesson.md) for detailed plans for lab days.

## Accommodation/Differentiation

-   Instead of a scene from a play or a nursery rhyme, students can recreate a famous scene from a movie, depict lyrics from their favorite song, or develop their own unique animations.  Feel free to modify the specification for whichever version will appeal most to your students.
-   Advanced students can be encouraged to add detail and/or complexity to their project for possible extra credit.
-   For ELL students or students from other cultures, offer the opportunity to choose an animation subject familiar to them rather than requiring a traditional English nursery rhyme or play.
    -   If necessary, a non-English language can be used for this assignment without affecting the learning objectives.  Discuss this option with the student's ELL specialist to determine if it is appropriate.
