lesson_51.md, before:

<!--- TODO: This is very much a first attempt at this lesson.  Feedback on whether or not this hits the high-level goals is greatly appreciated. -->

# Lesson 5.1: Intro to Cloning

## Learning Objectives

Students will be able to...

-   Explain why prototyping and clones can be useful
-   Describe how complex goals can be accomplished using cloning

## Materials/Preparation
- [Lab 5.1 Handout](lab_51.md) (Connect the Dots) ([Download in Word](Unit 5 Word/Lab 5.1 Connect the Dots.docx)) ([Link to PDF](https://teals.sharepoint.com/curriculum/_layouts/15/guestaccess.aspx?guestaccesstoken=YGI547dBfsHaVP1SJ1IxLsnblSATa5XQydOM6IHAtf4%3d&docid=011f435f77ad34cf188b6bc94bcaddbfc))
- If possible, create large poster-sized versions of the dot grids (each grid is 12 x 3).

## Pacing Guide
| Duration  | Description                                   |
| --------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| 5 minutes | Welcome, attendance, bell work, announcements |
| 10 minutes | Introduce activity |
| 25 minutes | Activity |
| 15 minutes | Debrief and wrap-up|

## Instructor's Notes

1. Introduce activity
    * Inform students that they will be drawing some figures by following specific instructions
    * Emphasize that students must follow all instructions in the lab carefully
    * Throughout the activity, ask students to think about other ways they could accomplish the same goals and the advantages and disadvantages of each approach.
2. Activity
    * Split students into groups of at least six.  If the number of students is not an exact multiple of six, create a few groups of seven and have students take turns being "active."
    * Students should follow the steps in the lab, being careful to act as a group.
        * In each part, the group will draw the letter 'C' six times, using slightly different instructions.
    * Students should, hopefully, notice that in part 3, they are able to achieve similar but not exactly the same results by all following the same instructions.  (Though each student draws a 'C', they are not all in the same location.)  In each part, they were able to improve the efficiency and clarity of the instructions.
3. Debrief
    * Ask each group to share their answers to the questions at the end of each part.
    * Discuss how this approach could be applied to coding.
    * Introduce the terms "prototyping" and "cloning" as (mostly) synonyms:
        * _prototyping: creating a single "master" entity that defines the behavior for a group of objects, then creating many copies of the prototype to duplicate the behavior_

## Accommodations/Differentiation

Commit message:

Video mapping (#19)
Add BJC videos to appropriate lesson plans, add BJC video mapping summary page containing mapping of all videos.

lesson_51.md, after:

<!--- TODO: This is very much a first attempt at this lesson.  Feedback on whether or not this hits the high-level goals is greatly appreciated. -->

# Lesson 5.1: Intro to Cloning

## Learning Objectives

Students will be able to...

-   Explain why prototyping and clones can be useful
-   Describe how complex goals can be accomplished using cloning

## Materials/Preparation
- [Lab 5.1 Handout](lab_51.md) (Connect the Dots) ([Download in Word](Unit 5 Word/Lab 5.1 Connect the Dots.docx)) ([Link to PDF](https://teals.sharepoint.com/curriculum/_layouts/15/guestaccess.aspx?guestaccesstoken=YGI547dBfsHaVP1SJ1IxLsnblSATa5XQydOM6IHAtf4%3d&docid=011f435f77ad34cf188b6bc94bcaddbfc))
- If possible, create large poster-sized versions of the dot grids (each grid is 12 x 3).

## Pacing Guide
| Duration  | Description                                   |
| --------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| 5 minutes | Welcome, attendance, bell work, announcements |
| 10 minutes | Introduce activity |
| 25 minutes | Activity |
| 15 minutes | Debrief and wrap-up|

## Instructor's Notes

1. Introduce activity
    * Inform students that they will be drawing some figures by following specific instructions
    * Emphasize that students must follow all instructions in the lab carefully
    * Throughout the activity, ask students to think about other ways they could accomplish the same goals and the advantages and disadvantages of each approach.
2. Activity
    * Split students into groups of at least six.  If the number of students is not an exact multiple of six, create a few groups of seven and have students take turns being "active."
    * Students should follow the steps in the lab, being careful to act as a group.
        * In each part, the group will draw the letter 'C' six times, using slightly different instructions.
    * Students should, hopefully, notice that in part 3, they are able to achieve similar but not exactly the same results by all following the same instructions.  (Though each student draws a 'C', they are not all in the same location.)  In each part, they were able to improve the efficiency and clarity of the instructions.
3. Debrief
    * Ask each group to share their answers to the questions at the end of each part.
    * Discuss how this approach could be applied to coding.
    * Introduce the terms "prototyping" and "cloning" as (mostly) synonyms:
        * _prototyping: creating a single "master" entity that defines the behavior for a group of objects, then creating many copies of the prototype to duplicate the behavior_

##BJC Lecture Suggestions 

#### Good for Classroom Instruction 
 - [Fibonacci and Fibonacci Series Video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w2d_snYBLeY&t=7m45s) 7:45-11:45
####Background Information for Instructors

* [BJC Lecture 11:Recursion II Alijia Yan](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w2d_snYBLeY&index=11&list=PLA4F0F0CA4A3EE7F4)
 - Mobile World Congress 0:00-2:15
 - Recursion:Factorials (Factorial (n)+ n! 2:30-7:40
 - [Fibonacci and Fibonacci Series Video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w2d_snYBLeY&t=7m45s)  7:45-11:45
  - Fibonacci Ex: fin(n) Math and SNAP blocks 11:50-13:15
 - Example of Recursion: Counting Change 13:20-17:30
 - Call Tree for “Counting Change” with SNAP example 17:35-22:50
 - Summary of Recursion 25:40-26:21


## Accommodations/Differentiation
