lesson_12.md, before:

# Lesson 1.2: Building Blocks

## Learning Objectives

Students will be able to...

- Identify the categories of blocks in Snap!.
- Describe the function of several common Snap! blocks.
- Be able to use common blocks to build simple Snap! programs.

## Materials/Preparation

- [Do Now 1.2: Tracing and Debugging](do_now_12.md) If you like you can place a picture of [Admiral Grace Hopper](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/21/Grace_Murray_Hopper%2C_in_her_office_in_Washington_DC%2C_1978%2C_%C2%A9Lynn_Gilbert.jpg) or her Mark II [notes](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/8a/H96566k.jpg) that show the bug she found in the computer.
- [Lab 1.2](lab_12.md) handout (SNAP Scavenger Hunt) ([docx](https://github.com/TEALSK12/introduction-to-computer-science/raw/master/Unit%201%20Word/Lab%201.2%20SNAP%20Scavenger%20Hunt.docx)) ([PDF](https://github.com/TEALSK12/introduction-to-computer-science/raw/master/Unit%201%20PDF/Lab%201.2%20SNAP%20Scavenger%20Hunt.pdf)).
- Helping Trios handout ([docx](https://github.com/TEALSK12/introduction-to-computer-science/raw/master/Unit%201%20Word/Helping%20Trios.docx)) [(PDF)](https://github.com/TEALSK12/introduction-to-computer-science/raw/master/Unit%201%20PDF/Helping%20Trios.pdf).
- Read through the handout so that you are familiar with the requirements and can assist students.
- Index cards with each students name on them. One name per index card.
- _Who is Grace Hopper?_ Video: 
- [Unit 1 Tips](unit_1_tips.md).
- 
- <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Fg82iV-L8ZY" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Pacing Guide

| Duration   | Description                                   |
| ---------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| 5 minutes  | Welcome, attendance, bell work, announcements |
| 10 minutes | Introductory discussion                       |
| 25 minutes | "SNAP Scavenger Hunt" Lab activity            |
| 15 minutes | Debrief and wrap-up                           |

## Instructor's Notes

### Introductory discussion

- Do Now Debrief:
  - Tell the story of [Admiral Grace Hopper](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grace_Hopper) who originated the term "Debugging"
  - You could also use this _Who is Grace Hopper?_ Video: [https://youtu.be/Fg82iV-L8ZY](https://youtu.be/Fg82iV-L8ZY)
- Review the basics of Snap! from the previous lesson
- Ensure that students can:
  - Define **block** and **script**.
  - Describe how to build a script (snapping blocks together).
  - Explain how scripts are executed (one block at a time in order).
- Introduce the concept of block categories.
- Ask students to consider why categories are helpful as opposed to having a simple list of blocks.

### 2.  Activity

- Individually or in heterogeneous pairs as described in previous lessons, have students work through the ["SNAP Scavenger Hunt"](lab_12.md) activity.
- Students should turn in answers to all questions and Snap! programs for the final problems.
- Consider gamifying the worksheet or debrief as an online poll and/or quiz.

### 3.  Debrief

- Go through each question or prompt in parts 1 and 2 and ask students to share their answer.

  > **Cold calling alternative:** Write each student’s name on an index card and shuffle the cards. Next, ask a few “review” questions to set the stage that ask for application (or creativity, or evaluation) and have no single “right answer.” Give students 30 to 60 seconds to formulate an answer. You can have them talk in pairs or groups for a few minutes as well if you prefer. It’s only after students have been thinking that you take the top card to see who answers. Sometimes you can say something like, “If you don’t know, make something up like you would on a mid-term, and then we’ll all help you develop better answers.” The student takes their best shot, knowing that others will help if necessary.
  > At that point you have lots of options:  You can ask a follow-up to the same student, pick another card and have somebody else answer the follow-up, or simply have students volunteer to expand on the first answer.
- Point out the color coding for each category.
- Emphasize important details in some of the blocks listed in part 2, such as:
  - The `Think Block` will leave the bubble on the stage until something else is thought.
    ![Think Block](think.png)
- the `Go to XY block` and `Glide block` blocks require explicit x- and y-coordinates.
  ![Go to XY block](gotox-y.png) ![Glide block](glide.png)
- Solicit a few student responses for each category in part 2.2 before commenting yourself.
- Try to guide the students to discuss with each other and settle on a description for each category with minimal instructor intervention.
- Discuss one or two student solutions to each of the Snap! programming problems
- Either solicit volunteers or use cold call alternative.
- Point out differences between student solutions and call attention to the fact that there is more than one way to solve a problem.

## Accommodations/Differentiation

- Colorblind students may not be able to identify the block colors, but can still recognize the organization of categories. Be sensitive to this, but no modifications are likely required.
- Students that are struggling with the lab can be paired up and/or receive individual instructor attention to help them through the activity. Use you could also use ["Helping Trios."](https://github.com/TEALSK12/introduction-to-computer-science/raw/master/Unit%201%20PDF/Helping%20Trios.pdf)
- The bonus assignment (3.4) should be used for students who finish quickly, and can be a setup for the [Animation Project](project_1.md).

## Forum discussion

[Lesson 1.2 Building Blocks](http://forums.tealsk12.org/c/unit-1-snap-basics/lesson-1-2-building-blocks) (TEALS Discourse account required).

Commit message:

Spelling, Grammar and Remote Guidance/resources

lesson_12.md, after:

# Lesson 1.2: Building Blocks

## Learning Objectives

Students will be able to...

- Identify the categories of blocks in Snap!.
- Describe the function of several common Snap! blocks.
- Be able to use common blocks to build simple Snap! programs.

## Materials/Preparation

- [Do Now 1.2: Tracing and Debugging](do_now_12.md) If you like you can place a picture of [Admiral Grace Hopper](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/21/Grace_Murray_Hopper%2C_in_her_office_in_Washington_DC%2C_1978%2C_%C2%A9Lynn_Gilbert.jpg) or her Mark II [notes](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/8a/H96566k.jpg) that show the bug she found in the computer.
- [Lab 1.2](lab_12.md) handout (SNAP Scavenger Hunt) ([docx](https://github.com/TEALSK12/introduction-to-computer-science/raw/master/Unit%201%20Word/Lab%201.2%20SNAP%20Scavenger%20Hunt.docx)) ([pdf](https://github.com/TEALSK12/introduction-to-computer-science/raw/master/Unit%201%20pdf/Lab%201.2%20SNAP%20Scavenger%20Hunt.pdf)).
- Helping Trios handout ([docx](https://github.com/TEALSK12/introduction-to-computer-science/raw/master/Unit%201%20Word/Helping%20Trios.docx)) [(pdf)](https://github.com/TEALSK12/introduction-to-computer-science/raw/master/Unit%201%20pdf/Helping%20Trios.pdf).
- Read through the handout so that you are familiar with the requirements and can assist students.
- Index cards with each students name on them. One name per index card.
- [Unit 1 Tips](unit_1_tips.md).
- _Who is Grace Hopper?_ Video:

  <iframe class="markdeep" width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Fg82iV-L8ZY" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Pacing Guide

| Duration   | Description                                   |
| ---------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| 5 minutes  | Welcome, attendance, bell work, announcements |
| 10 minutes | Introductory discussion                       |
| 25 minutes | "SNAP Scavenger Hunt" Lab activity            |
| 15 minutes | Debrief and wrap-up                           |

## Instructor's Notes

### Introductory discussion

- Do Now Debrief:
  - Tell the story of [Admiral Grace Hopper](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grace_Hopper) who originated the term "Debugging"
  - You could also use this _Who is Grace Hopper?_ Video: [https://youtu.be/Fg82iV-L8ZY](https://youtu.be/Fg82iV-L8ZY)
- Review the basics of Snap! from the previous lesson
- Ensure that students can:
  - Define **block** and **script**.
  - Describe how to build a script (snapping blocks together).
  - Explain how scripts are executed (one block at a time in order).
- Introduce the concept of block categories.
- Ask students to consider why categories are helpful as opposed to having a simple list of blocks.

### 2.  Activity

- Individually or in heterogeneous pairs as described in previous lessons, have students work through the ["SNAP Scavenger Hunt"](lab_12.md) activity.
- Students should turn in answers to all questions and Snap! programs for the final problems.
- Consider gamifying the worksheet or debrief as an online poll and/or quiz.

### 3.  Debrief

- Go through each question or prompt in parts 1 and 2 and ask students to share their answer.

  > **Cold calling alternative:** Write each student’s name on an index card and shuffle the cards. Next, ask a few “review” questions to set the stage that ask for application (or creativity, or evaluation) and have no single “right answer.” Give students 30 to 60 seconds to formulate an answer. You can have them talk in pairs or groups for a few minutes as well if you prefer. It’s only after students have been thinking that you take the top card to see who answers. Sometimes you can say something like, “If you don’t know, make something up like you would on a mid-term, and then we’ll all help you develop better answers.” The student takes their best shot, knowing that others will help if necessary.
  > At that point you have lots of options:  You can ask a follow-up to the same student, pick another card and have somebody else answer the follow-up, or simply have students volunteer to expand on the first answer.
- _Remote Guidance_ - Use this [Random Name Generator](Excel-Randomizer.xlsx) to select a student in a remote setting.
- Point out the color coding for each category.
- Emphasize important details in some of the blocks listed in part 2, such as:
  - The `Think Block` will leave the bubble on the stage until something else is thought.
    ![Think Block](think.png)
- the `Go to XY block` and `Glide block` blocks require explicit x- and y-coordinates.
  ![Go to XY block](gotox-y.png) ![Glide block](glide.png)
- Solicit a few student responses for each category in part 2.2 before commenting yourself.
- Try to guide the students to discuss with each other and settle on a description for each category with minimal instructor intervention.
- Discuss one or two student solutions to each of the Snap! programming problems
- Either solicit volunteers or use cold call alternative.
- Point out differences between student solutions and call attention to the fact that there is more than one way to solve a problem.

## Accommodations/Differentiation

- Colorblind students may not be able to identify the block colors, but can still recognize the organization of categories. Be sensitive to this, but no modifications are likely required.
- Students that are struggling with the lab can be paired up and/or receive individual instructor attention to help them through the activity. Use you could also use [Helping Trios](https://github.com/TEALSK12/introduction-to-computer-science/raw/master/Unit%201%20pdf/Helping%20Trios.pdf).
- The bonus assignment (3.4) should be used for students who finish quickly, and can be a setup for the [Animation Project](project_1.md).

## Forum discussion

[Lesson 1.2 Building Blocks](http://forums.tealsk12.org/c/unit-1-snap-basics/lesson-1-2-building-blocks) (TEALS Discourse account required).
