lesson_42.md, before:

# Lesson 4.2: Static Lists

## Learning Objectives

Students will be able to...

-   Create static lists in SNAP
-   Access elements of a list
-   Add and remove elements from a list

## Materials/Preparation

-   [Do Now 4.2: Letters of a Word](do_now_42.md)
-   [Lab 4.2 handout (You Talkin' to Me?)](lab_42.md) ([Download in Word](https://github.com/TEALSK12/introduction-to-computer-science/raw/master/Unit%204%20Word/Lab%204.2%20You%20Talkin%20To%20Me.docx)) ([Link to PDF](https://github.com/TEALSK12/introduction-to-computer-science/raw/master/Unit%204%20PDF/Lab%204.2%20You%20Talkin%20To%20Me.pdf))
-   [SNAP List Components]([Download in Word]()) ([Link to PDF]())

## Pacing Guide

| Duration   | Description                                   |
| ---------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| 5 minutes  | Welcome, attendance, bell work, announcements |
| 15 minutes | Lecture and introduce activity                |
| 25 minutes | Grammar Activity                              |
| 10 minutes | Debrief and wrap-up                           |

## Instructor's Notes

-   Lecture
    -   Review the concept of a list from the previous lesson
        -   Ask students to brainstorm examples of when lists could be useful
            -   To store an unknown number of values (e.g. a bunch of student test scores, shopping list, the songs of your favorite music artist)
            -   To store a collection of related values as one entity (e.g. the number of absent students each day over a week, how often a video on YouTube in a week)
    -   Demonstrate creating lists in SNAP
    
        -   Use the variadic (taking a variable number of arguments) "list" block to create a simple list
        -   Point out the format in which lists are displayed (gray box with red elements)
        -   Show that lists can be assigned to variables like other values
            -   Emphasize that the list is considered a single value, even though it consists of multiple values
    -   Point out and explain basic list operations blocks
        -   The "item," "add," and "delete" blocks will be most important.  The "length" block will be useful as well.
        -   Point out that these blocks all take a list as an argument.
        -   Share this visual representation of SNAP! Lists [] with your students. Consider posting it in your classroom so students can refer to throughout the unit.
-   Activity
    -   Students should complete the "You Talkin' to Me?" activity individually or in pairs
        -   Encourage students to be creative with their word lists
        -   Don't allow students to fixate on the exact grammatical correctness of generated phrases and sentences
            -   If this is a major concern, choose words for the lists such that generated phrases will always be grammatically correct
-   Debrief
    -   Ask a student to present and discuss their solution to each step
        -   Emphasizes uses of lists and encourage students to discuss and think about why lists were necessary
        -   Ask students to consider if the tasks would have been doable without lists

## Accommodations/Differentiation

-   In addition to the bonuses in the lab, advanced students can attempt further extensions of the grammar, including conjunctions, non-transitive verb phrases, and/or recursive rules (e.g. multiple adjectives).  
    -   A more complex context-free grammar for English sentences can be found here: <http://www.cs.uccs.edu/~jkalita/work/cs589/2013/12Grammars.pdf>.  
-   Struggling students should focus on generating a noun phrase from only a few words.  The other parts of speech and phrase types can be omitted without losing the key learning objectives.
-   Non-native English speakers or those with low literacy may struggle with the grammatical concepts here.  Since the grammar is not the key objective, feel free to scaffold liberally and/or substitute a different type of grammar.
    -   Other grammar examples, including arithmetic expressions (which are a good simple substitute) can be found here: <https://www.cs.rochester.edu/~nelson/courses/csc_173/grammars/cfg.html>.
    -   You can also provide a grammar cheat sheet with example sentences (example from ([Woodward English](https://www.woodwardenglish.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/parts-of-speech-english.jpg)) 


## Forum discussion

<a href="http://forums.tealsk12.org/c/intro-unit-4-lists/lesson-4-2-static-lists" target="_blank">
Lesson 4.2: Static Lists (TEALS Discourse account required).</a>

Commit message:

SNAP Lists Components Links Added

lesson_42.md, after:

# Lesson 4.2: Static Lists

## Learning Objectives

Students will be able to...

-   Create static lists in SNAP
-   Access elements of a list
-   Add and remove elements from a list

## Materials/Preparation

-   [Do Now 4.2: Letters of a Word](do_now_42.md)
-   [Lab 4.2 handout (You Talkin' to Me?)](lab_42.md) ([Download in Word](https://github.com/TEALSK12/introduction-to-computer-science/raw/master/Unit%204%20Word/Lab%204.2%20You%20Talkin%20To%20Me.docx)) ([Link to PDF](https://github.com/TEALSK12/introduction-to-computer-science/raw/master/Unit%204%20PDF/Lab%204.2%20You%20Talkin%20To%20Me.pdf))
-   [Snap! List Components] [(Download in Word )](https://github.com/TEALSK12/introduction-to-computer-science/blob/master/Unit%204%20Word/SNAP%20Lists%20Components.docx?raw=true), [(Download PDF)](https://github.com/TEALSK12/introduction-to-computer-science/raw/master/Unit%204%20PDF/SNAP%20Lists%20Components.pdf)

## Pacing Guide

| Duration   | Description                                   |
| ---------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| 5 minutes  | Welcome, attendance, bell work, announcements |
| 15 minutes | Lecture and introduce activity                |
| 25 minutes | Grammar Activity                              |
| 10 minutes | Debrief and wrap-up                           |

## Instructor's Notes

-   Lecture
    -   Review the concept of a list from the previous lesson
        -   Ask students to brainstorm examples of when lists could be useful
            -   To store an unknown number of values (e.g. a bunch of student test scores, shopping list, the songs of your favorite music artist)
            -   To store a collection of related values as one entity (e.g. the number of absent students each day over a week, how often a video on YouTube in a week)
    -   Demonstrate creating lists in SNAP
        -   Use the [Snap! Lists Components] file to demostrate the Snap! list structure
        -   Use the variadic (taking a variable number of arguments) "list" block to create a simple list
        -   Point out the format in which lists are displayed (gray box with red elements)
        -   Show that lists can be assigned to variables like other values
            -   Emphasize that the list is considered a single value, even though it consists of multiple values
    -   Point out and explain basic list operations blocks
        -   The "item," "add," and "delete" blocks will be most important.  The "length" block will be useful as well.
        -   Point out that these blocks all take a list as an argument.
        -   Share this visual representation of SNAP! Lists [] with your students. Consider posting it in your classroom so students can refer to throughout the unit.
-   Activity
    -   Students should complete the "You Talkin' to Me?" activity individually or in pairs
        -   Encourage students to be creative with their word lists
        -   Don't allow students to fixate on the exact grammatical correctness of generated phrases and sentences
            -   If this is a major concern, choose words for the lists such that generated phrases will always be grammatically correct
-   Debrief
    -   Ask a student to present and discuss their solution to each step
        -   Emphasizes uses of lists and encourage students to discuss and think about why lists were necessary
        -   Ask students to consider if the tasks would have been doable without lists

## Accommodations/Differentiation

-   In addition to the bonuses in the lab, advanced students can attempt further extensions of the grammar, including conjunctions, non-transitive verb phrases, and/or recursive rules (e.g. multiple adjectives).  
    -   A more complex context-free grammar for English sentences can be found here: <http://www.cs.uccs.edu/~jkalita/work/cs589/2013/12Grammars.pdf>.  
-   Struggling students should focus on generating a noun phrase from only a few words.  The other parts of speech and phrase types can be omitted without losing the key learning objectives.
-   Non-native English speakers or those with low literacy may struggle with the grammatical concepts here.  Since the grammar is not the key objective, feel free to scaffold liberally and/or substitute a different type of grammar.
    -   Other grammar examples, including arithmetic expressions (which are a good simple substitute) can be found here: <https://www.cs.rochester.edu/~nelson/courses/csc_173/grammars/cfg.html>.
    -   You can also provide a grammar cheat sheet with example sentences (example from ([Woodward English](https://www.woodwardenglish.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/parts-of-speech-english.jpg)) 


## Forum discussion

<a href="http://forums.tealsk12.org/c/intro-unit-4-lists/lesson-4-2-static-lists" target="_blank">
Lesson 4.2: Static Lists (TEALS Discourse account required).</a>

[Snap! List Components]: https://github.com/TEALSK12/introduction-to-computer-science/blob/master/Unit%204%20Word/SNAP%20Lists%20Components.docx?raw=true
