project_1.md, before:

<!--- REVISED -->
# Project 1: Animated Storytelling

Students will use SNAP basics to implement an animated version of a story.

## Overview

Storytelling is a great way to convey culture.  Some examples of storytelling are plays and nursery rhymes. Famous plays like those of William Shakespeare have been performed over centuries.  Some have been adapted for modern times like West Side Story. A nursery rhyme is a short poem or song written for children. Though the term is typically applied to British or other English language poems, similar concepts exist in many world cultures. These short stories are generally meant to entertain and/or calm young children. Some are believed to have a hidden moral or meaning related to historical events, but many of these meanings are questionable.

---
#### Emphasizing with students ...
#### Big Ideas - Digital tools and technologies can help capture stories in our own heritage, especially ones that might otherwise be lost, or difficult to write down

In Canada there are over 600 First Nation communities, speaking more than 50 distinct languages, and a multitude of dialects.  Students may be familiar with many towns and cities in Canada that have been given names adapted from the original Aboriginal language spoken in the area,  such as Coquitlam ("small red salmon",  or Oshawa ("crossing a stream"),  or Tsawwassen ("facing the ocean").  Traditionally First Nations people relied on storytelling instead of the written language to pass down information and history.  

When British Columbia joined confederation in 1871, as many as 17,000 Chinese works were employed to build the railway through the Rocky Mountains, linking Canada together.  These workers faced many hardships.  Many died.  Some were eventually able to reunite with their wives or children, and later work as cooks or operated laundromats.   Like the First Nation people, and like many other immigrant and settlers recruited to populate western Canada after the railway was built, these stories were often shared from generation to generation by word of mouth from a relative or elder.   

For this project, student may be encouraged to portray an animation that depicts some aspect of their own heritage, such as:
    - animation of how a city/town name in Canada came to be
    - animated map of an immigration journey
    - a personal family story

---

## Reference
-   Traditional plays  http://www.npr.org/sections/ed/2015/07/30/427138970/the-most-popular-high-school-plays-and-musicals
-   Nursey rhymes  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nursery_rhymes
-   First Nations traditions  http://www.aadnc-aandc.gc.ca/eng/1303134042666/1303134337338
-   Aboriginal languages of First Nations https://www12.statcan.gc.ca/census-recensement/2016/as-sa/98-200-x/2016022/98-200-x2016022-eng.cfm 
-   Canadian Railway settlements  https://cpconnectingcanada.ca/#immigration-settlements
-   Chinese Canadian railway workers  https://www.library.ubc.ca/chineseinbc/railways.html


## Details

###Behavior
You will create a short animation in SNAP depicting a story of your choice. 

-   Whenever the green flag is clicked, your SNAP animation should display your chosen story line by line somewhere on the stage. (This should work correctly even if the last run was interrupted and restart.)
-   As each line is shown, sprites should act out the story.
-   The animation should advance on its own, but should do so at a pace that allows each action to complete and the viewer to read the line before the next line is shown and new action begins.
-   In addition, the sprites must act out the rhyme; you should not simply create a series of static backgrounds or costumes that show a stop-motion version of the story.
-   Each line must be readable and must stay shown while the corresponding action is occurring.
-   When the story ends, there should be a way for the user to replay the entire animation from the beginning.
-   You are free to be as creative as you like with your choice of sprites and actions.<br />
    <br />
    You may choose from the sprites provided by SNAP or create your own. (You will not be graded on your artistic skills.) You may interpret the story literally or be clever with your depiction (but don't go too far). However, all sprites, behaviors, words, and animations must be school-appropriate.<br />
    <br />
    If you choose a particularly long story, you may not need to animate the whole thing. Please check with your teacher if you think your idea is long enough for this.

###Implementation Details
As mentioned above, your animation must display the text and animate each line. Action must be performed by sprites and must consist of more than simply changing costumes. You must include the following components in your animation:

-   At least two sprites that act in some way to contribute to the depiction of the story
-   At least one sprite that moves
-   At least one sprite that rotates
-   At least one sprite that changes costume
-   At least one sprite that is both hidden and shown at some point

Note that multiple of these requirements may be satisfied by the same sprite (e.g. the same sprite can both move and change costume), but you must have at least two separate sprites that act in the animation.

## Grading Scheme/Rubric

| **Functional Correctness (Behavior)**                                                                  |               |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------- |
| Animation depicts a story                                                                              | 2 points      |
| Story is shown one line at a time                                                                      | 2 points      |
| Each line is accompanied by sprites depicting the story, and all action is related to the current line | 3 points      |
| Clicking green flag starts animation from beginning                                                    | 1 point       |
| Animation progresses at a reasonable pace                                                              | 2 points      |
| User is able to restart animation when it concludes                                                    | 2 points      |
| **Total**                                                                                              | **12 points** |
| **Technical Correctness (Implementation)**                                                             |               |
| Program shows good creativity and effort                                                               | 2 points      |
| At least two sprites participate in the action                                                         | 2 points      |
| At least one sprite moves                                                                              | 1 points      |
| At least one sprite rotates                                                                            | 1 points      |
| At least one sprite changes costume                                                                    | 1 points      |
| At least one sprite hides and/or appears                                                               | 1 points      |
| **Total**                                                                                              | **8 points**  |
| **PROJECT TOTAL**                                                                                      | **20 points** |

|

Commit message:

removed reference to rhyme in rubric/requirements

project_1.md, after:

<!--- REVISED -->
# Project 1: Animated Storytelling

Students will use SNAP basics to implement an animated version of a story.

## Overview

Storytelling is a great way to convey culture.  Some examples of storytelling are plays and nursery rhymes. Famous plays like those of William Shakespeare have been performed over centuries.  Some have been adapted for modern times like West Side Story. A nursery rhyme is a short poem or song written for children. Though the term is typically applied to British or other English language poems, similar concepts exist in many world cultures. These short stories are generally meant to entertain and/or calm young children. Some are believed to have a hidden moral or meaning related to historical events, but many of these meanings are questionable.

---
#### Emphasizing with students ...
#### Big Ideas - Digital tools and technologies can help capture stories in our own heritage, especially ones that might otherwise be lost, or difficult to write down

In Canada there are over 600 First Nation communities, speaking more than 50 distinct languages, and a multitude of dialects.  Students may be familiar with many towns and cities in Canada that have been given names adapted from the original Aboriginal language spoken in the area,  such as Coquitlam ("small red salmon"),  or Oshawa ("crossing a stream"),  or Tsawwassen ("facing the ocean").  Traditionally First Nations people relied on storytelling instead of the written language to pass down information and history.  

When British Columbia joined confederation in 1871, as many as 17,000 Chinese works were employed to build the railway through the Rocky Mountains, linking Canada together.  These workers faced many hardships.  Many died.  Some were eventually able to reunite with their wives or children, and later work as cooks or operated laundromats.   Like the First Nation people, and like many other immigrant and settlers recruited to populate western Canada after the railway was built, these stories were often shared from generation to generation by word of mouth from a relative or elder.   

For this project, student may be encouraged to portray an animation that depicts some aspect of their own heritage, especially stories that have been passed down by word of mouth.  Some ideas:
    - animation of how a city/town name in Canada came to be
    - animated map of an immigration journey
    - a personal family story

---

## Reference
-   Traditional plays  http://www.npr.org/sections/ed/2015/07/30/427138970/the-most-popular-high-school-plays-and-musicals
-   Nursey rhymes  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nursery_rhymes
-   First Nations traditions  http://www.aadnc-aandc.gc.ca/eng/1303134042666/1303134337338
-   Aboriginal languages of First Nations https://www12.statcan.gc.ca/census-recensement/2016/as-sa/98-200-x/2016022/98-200-x2016022-eng.cfm 
-   Canadian Railway settlements  https://cpconnectingcanada.ca/#immigration-settlements
-   Chinese Canadian railway workers  https://www.library.ubc.ca/chineseinbc/railways.html


## Details

###Behavior
You will create a short animation in SNAP depicting a story of your choice. 

-   Whenever the green flag is clicked, your SNAP animation should display your chosen story line by line somewhere on the stage. (This should work correctly even if the last run was interrupted and restart.)
-   As each line is shown, sprites should act out the story.
-   The animation should advance on its own, but should do so at a pace that allows each action to complete and the viewer to read the line before the next line is shown and new action begins.
-   In addition, the sprites must act out the story; you should not simply create a series of static backgrounds or costumes that show a stop-motion version of the story.
-   Each line must be readable and must stay shown while the corresponding action is occurring.
-   When the story ends, there should be a way for the user to replay the entire animation from the beginning.
-   You are free to be as creative as you like with your choice of sprites and actions.<br />
    <br />
    You may choose from the sprites provided by SNAP or create your own. (You will not be graded on your artistic skills.) You may interpret the story literally or be clever with your depiction (but don't go too far). However, all sprites, behaviors, words, and animations must be school-appropriate.<br />
    <br />
    If you choose a particularly long story, you may not need to animate the whole thing. Please check with your teacher if you think your idea is long enough for this.

###Implementation Details
As mentioned above, your animation must display the text and animate each line. Action must be performed by sprites and must consist of more than simply changing costumes. You must include the following components in your animation:

-   At least two sprites that act in some way to contribute to the depiction of the story
-   At least one sprite that moves
-   At least one sprite that rotates
-   At least one sprite that changes costume
-   At least one sprite that is both hidden and shown at some point

Note that multiple of these requirements may be satisfied by the same sprite (e.g. the same sprite can both move and change costume), but you must have at least two separate sprites that act in the animation.

## Grading Scheme/Rubric

| **Functional Correctness (Behavior)**                                                                  |               |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------- |
| Animation depicts a story                                                                              | 2 points      |
| Story is shown one line at a time                                                                      | 2 points      |
| Each line is accompanied by sprites depicting the story, and all action is related to the current line | 3 points      |
| Clicking green flag starts animation from beginning                                                    | 1 point       |
| Animation progresses at a reasonable pace                                                              | 2 points      |
| User is able to restart animation when it concludes                                                    | 2 points      |
| **Total**                                                                                              | **12 points** |
| **Technical Correctness (Implementation)**                                                             |               |
| Program shows good creativity and effort                                                               | 2 points      |
| At least two sprites participate in the action                                                         | 2 points      |
| At least one sprite moves                                                                              | 1 points      |
| At least one sprite rotates                                                                            | 1 points      |
| At least one sprite changes costume                                                                    | 1 points      |
| At least one sprite hides and/or appears                                                               | 1 points      |
| **Total**                                                                                              | **8 points**  |
| **PROJECT TOTAL**                                                                                      | **20 points** |

|
